(CHINESE FLUTE PLAYING)
WOMAN: The great artisans say
the more the teapot is used
the more beautiful it becomes.
The pot is seasoned
by repeatedly pouring tea
over the surface.
The deposit left
on the clay creates this
beautiful patina over time.
Some pots, the clay has been
burnished by tea
made over 400 years ago.
WOMAN ANNOUNCING:
This museum will be
closing in 10 minutes.
Four hundred years old,
they're letting you use it
to make yourself a brew.
Some things aren't supposed
to sit behind glass,
they're made to be touched,
to be handled.
(SIGHS)
These pots need attention.
The clay is cracking.
Well, I can't see
how a tiny splash of tea
is going to help.
Sometimes you have
to look hard at something
to see its value.
See?
This one shines
a little brighter.
I don't suppose...
Um, I mean...
I don't suppose
that you want to have a drink?
Not tea, obviously.
Um, in a pub,
with me, tonight.
Um...
You wouldn't like me
all that much.
Can I maybe decide
that for myself?
I can't.
I'm sorry.
Please stop asking.
(LOCK CLICKS)
Is that security?
Hello?
(SIREN WAILS)
(BEEPS)
WOMAN ANNOUNCING OVER P.A:
Can the till supervisor
please go to...
AUTOMATED VOICE:
Unexpected item
in bagging area,
please try again.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
Item not scanned.
Please try again.
Can you maybe keep
your voice down?
(GROANING)
-Card not authorised.
-Yes, all right! I've got it.
Please use an alternative
method of payment.
Card not authorised.
Please use an alternative
method of payment.
Keep it. Keep that.
(GRUNTS)
-You took your time.
-Yeah, I didn't get
the shopping.
What? Why not?
Because I had a row
in the shop with
a chip and PIN machine.
You...
You had a row with a machine?
Sort of. It sat there
and I shouted abuse.
Have you got cash?
Take my card.
You could always go yourself,
you know, you've been
sitting there all morning
and not even moved
since I left.
(GRUNTING)
And what happened about
that case you were offered,
the Jaria diamond?
Not interested.
(CLANKS)
I sent them a message.
(SIGHING) Holmes.
(FOOTSTEPS RECEDING
DOWN STAIRCASE)
Don't worry about me,
I can manage.
-Is that my computer?
-Of course.
-What?
-Mine was in the bedroom.
What? And you couldn't
be bothered to get up?
It's password protected.
In a manner of speaking.
Took me less than a minute
to guess yours,
-not exactly Fort Knox.
-Right. Thank you.
(SIREN WAILS)
Oh.
-Need to get a job.
-Oh, dull.
Listen, um...
If you'd be able
to lend me some...
-Sherlock, are you listening?
-I need to go to the bank.
Yes, when you said
we were going to the bank...
(DOOR BEEPS)
(ELEVATOR BELL DINGS)
Sherlock Holmes.
(PHONE RINGS)
-Sherlock Holmes.
-Sebastian.
Hiya, buddy. How long has it
been, eight years since
I last clapped eyes on you?
This is my friend,
John Watson.
-Friend?
-Colleague.
Right.
(PHONE RINGING)
Grab a pew.
Do you need anything,
coffee, water?
No? We're all
sorted here, thanks.
So you're doing well.
You've been abroad a lot.
Well, so?
Flying all the way
around the world
twice in a month.
(SCOFFS) Right.
You're doing that thing.
We were at uny together,
and this guy here
had a trick he used to do.
It's not a trick.
He could look at you
and tell you
your whole life story.
-Yes, I've seen him do it.
-Put the wind up everybody,
we hated him.
We'd come down to breakfast
in the formal hall
and this freak would know
you'd been shagging
the previous night.
I simply observed.
Go on, enlighten me.
"Two trips a month,
flying all the way around
the world?"
You're quite right.
How could you tell?
Are you going to tell me
there's a stain on my tie
from some special kind
of ketchup you can only buy
in Manhattan?
-No, I...
-Maybe it was the mud
on my shoes?
I was just chatting with
your secretary outside.
She told me.
(LAUGHS)
I'm glad you could
make it over,
we've had a break-in.
Sir William's office,
the bank's former chairman.
The room's been left here
like a sort of memorial.
Someone broke in
late last night.
-What did they steal?
-Nothing.
Just left a little message.
-(BEEPING)
-(DOOR BUZZES OPEN)
Sixty seconds apart.
(BEEPING)
So, someone came up here
in the middle of the night,
splashed paint around
and left within a minute.
How many ways
into that office?
Well, that's where this gets
really interesting.
Every door that opens
in this bank,
it gets logged right here.
Every walk-in cupboard,
every toilet.
That door didn't open
last night?
There's a hole
in our security.
Find it and we'll pay you,
five figures.
This is an advance.
Tell me how he got in.
There's a bigger one
on its way.
I don't need an incentive,
Sebastian.
He's, uh...
He's kidding you obviously.
Shall I look after that
for him? Thanks.
(CAMERA CLICKING)
(HELICOPTER PASSING BY)
Two trips around the world
this month.
You didn't ask his secretary,
you said that
just to irritate him.
-How did you know?
-Did you see his watch?
WATSON: His watch?
The time was right,
but the date was wrong.
It was set two days ago.
Crossed the date line twice
and he didn't alter it.
-Within a month?
How did you get that part?
-New Breitling.
Only came out this February.
Okay. So do you think
we should sniff around here
for a bit longer?
Got everything I need
to know already, thanks.
That graffiti was a message.
Someone at the bank,
working on the trading floors.
We find the intended recipient
and...
They'll lead us to the person
who sent it?
Obvious.
Well, there's 300 people
up there,
who was it meant for?
-Pillars.
-What?
Pillars and the screens.
Very few places
you could see
that graffiti from.
That narrows
the field considerably.
And, of course, the message
was left at 11.34 last night.
That tells us a lot.
-Does it?
-Traders come to work
at all hours.
Some trade with Hong Kong
in the middle of the night.
That message was intended
for somebody
who came in at midnight.
Not many Van Coons
in the phone book.
Taxi!
(DOOR BELL BUZZING)
So what do we do now?
Sit here and wait for him
to come back?
-Just moved in.
-What?
-Floor above, new label.
-Could have just replaced it.
(BUZZING)
No one ever does that.
WOMAN: Hello?
Hi, um, I live in the flat
just below you.
I don't think we've met.
No.
Well, er, I've just moved in.
Actually, I've just locked
my keys in my flat.
Do you want me to buzz you in?
Yeah. And can we use
your balcony?
What?
(DOOR BELL BUZZES)
WATSON: Sherlock?
WATSON: Sherlock,
are you okay?
Yeah, any time
you feel like letting me in.
(CAMERA CLICKING)
Do you think he'd lost
a lot of money?
I mean,
suicide is pretty common
among city boys.
-We don't know
that it was suicide.
-Come on.
The door was locked from
the inside, you had to
climb down the balcony.
Been away three days
judging by the laundry.
Look at the case,
there was something
tightly packed inside it.
-Thanks.
I'll take your word for it.
-Problem?
Yeah, I'm not desperate
to root around some bloke's
dirty underwear.
Those symbols at the bank,
the graffiti,
why were they put there?
-As some sort of code?
-Obviously.
Why were they painted?
Want to communicate,
why not use e-mail?
Well, maybe
he wasn't answering.
-Oh, good, you follow.
-No.
What kind of a message
would everyone try to avoid?
What about this morning?
Those letters
you were looking at?
Bills?
Yes. He was being threatened.
MAN: Bag this up will you,
and, uh...
Not by the Gas Board.
MAN: ...and see if you can get
prints off this glass.
Sergeant, we haven't met.
Yeah, I know who you are
and I would prefer it
if you didn't tamper
with any of the evidence.
-I phoned Lestrade.
Is he on his way?
-He's busy. I'm in charge.
And it's not Sergeant,
it's Detective Inspector
Dimmock.
We're obviously
looking at a suicide.
It does seem
the only explanation
of all the facts.
Wrong,
it's one possible explanation
of some of the facts.
You've got a solution
that you like,
but you are choosing
to ignore anything you see
that doesn't comply with it.
-Like?
-The wound's on the right side
of his head.
-And?
-Van Coon was left-handed.
Requires quite
a bit of contortion.
Left-handed?
I'm amazed you didn't notice,
all you have to do
is look around this flat.
Coffee table
on the left-hand side,
coffee mug handle
pointing to the left.
Power sockets,
habitually used the ones
on the left.
Pen and paper on the left
hand side of the phone because
he picked it up
with his right and took down
messages with his left.
-Do you want me to go on?
-No, I think
you've covered it.
I might as well, I'm almost
at the bottom of the list.
There's a knife
on the bread board with butter
on the right side of the blade
because he used it
with his left.
It's highly unlikely
that a left-handed man
would shoot himself
in the right side of his head.
Conclusion,
someone broke in here
and murdered him,
only explanation
of all of the facts.
-But the gun?
-He was waiting
for the killer.
-He'd been threatened.
-What?
Today at the bank,
sort of a warning.
He fired a shot
when his attacker came in.
-And the bullet?
-Went through the open window.
Oh, come on.
What are the chances of that?
Wait until you get
the ballistics report.
The bullet in his brain
wasn't fired from his gun,
I guarantee it.
If his door was locked
from the inside,
how did the killer get in?
Good, you're finally asking
the right questions.
So, he's left trying to
sort of cut his hair
with a fork,
(LAUGHS) which of course
can never be done.
It was a threat,
that's what
the graffiti meant.
I'm kind of in a meeting.
Can you make an appointment
with my secretary?
I don't think this can wait.
Sorry, Sebastian.
One of your traders,
someone who worked
in your office, was killed.
-What?
-WATSON: Van Coon.
-The police are at his flat.
-Killed?
Sorry to interfere
with everyone's digestion.
Still want to make
an appointment?
Would maybe 9:00
at Scotland Yard suit?
Harrow, Oxford.
Very bright guy.
Worked in Asia
for a while, so...
You gave him
the Hong Kong accounts?
Lost five million
in a single morning,
made it all back a week later.
Nerves of steel, Eddie had.
-Who'd want to kill him?
-We all make enemies.
We don't all end up
with a bullet
through your temple.
-(MOBILE PHONE BEEPS)
-Not usually. Excuse me.
It's my chairman.
Police have been on to him.
Apparently they're telling
him it was a suicide.
Well, they've got it wrong,
Sebastian. He was murdered.
Well, I'm afraid
they don't see it like that.
-So?
-And neither does my boss.
I hired you to do a job.
Don't get sidetracked.
I thought bankers
were all supposed to be
heartless bastards.
(DOOR CLOSING)
(HORN BLARING)
(SHUDDERING)
I need you to get over
to Crispians.
Two Ming vases
up for auction, Chenghua.
-Will you appraise them?
-Uh, Soo Lin should go,
she's the expert.
Soo Lin has resigned her job.
I need you.
(DOOR BELL RINGS)
(PHONE RINGING)
-Just locum work.
-No, that's fine.
You're, um...
Well, you're a bit
over-qualified.
Er, I could always do
with the money.
Well, we've got two
away on holiday this week
and one's just left
to have a baby.
It might be a bit mundane
for you.
Er, no, mundane is good,
sometimes.
Mundane works.
-It says here
you were a soldier.
-And a doctor.
Anything else you can do?
I learnt the clarinet
at school.
Oh. (CHUCKLES)
Well, I look forward to it.
I said could you pass
me a pen?
-What? When?
-About an hour ago.
Didn't notice
I'd gone out then?
I went to see about a job
at that surgery.
-How was it?
-Great. She's great.
Who?
-The job.
-She?
It.
-Yeah, have a look.
-Mmm?
-WATSON: "The intruder
who can walk through walls."
-It happened last night.
Journalist shot dead
in his flat.
Doors locked, windows bolted
from the inside.
Exactly the same as Van Coon.
-God! You think...
-He's killed another one.
Brian Lukis,
freelance journalist,
murdered in his flat.
Doors locked from the inside.
WATSON:
You've got to admit,
it's similar.
Both men
killed by someone who can
walk through solid walls.
Inspector, do you seriously
believe that Eddie Van Coon
was just another city suicide?
You have seen
the ballistics' reports,
I suppose?
Mmm.
And the shot that killed him,
was it fired from his own gun?
-No.
So this investigation
might move a bit quicker
if you were to take my word
as gospel.
I've just handed you
a murder inquiry.
Five minutes in his flat.
Four floors up.
That's why they think
they're safe.
Put a chain across the door,
bolt it shut
think your impregnable.
They don't reckon
for one second
that there's another way in.
-I don't understand.
-Dealing with a killer
who can climb.
-What are you doing?
-Clings to the walls
like an insect.
-That's how he got in.
-What?
He climbed up the side
of the walls,
ran along the roof,
dropped in through
this skylight.
You're not serious?
Like Spider-Man?
He scaled six floors
of a Docklands
apartment building,
-jumped the balcony
and killed Van Coon.
-Oh, hold on!
And of course that's how
he got into the bank.
SHERLOCK: He'd run
along within the ledge
and on to the terrace
I have to find out
what connects these two men.
Date stamped on the book
is the same day that he died.
Sherlock?
So, the killer goes
to the bank,
leaves a threatening cipher
at the bank.
Van Coon panics,
returns to his apartment,
locks himself in.
Hours later, he dies.
The killer finds Lukis
at the library,
he writes the cipher
on the shelf where he knows
it'll be seen.
Lukis goes home.
SHERLOCK:
Late that night, he dies too.
Why did they die, Sherlock?
Only the cipher can tell us.
SHERLOCK: The world's run
on codes and ciphers, John.
From the million pound
security system at the bank
to the pin machine
you took exception to.
Cryptography inhabits
our every waking moment.
WATSON:
Yes, okay, but...
But it's all
computer-generated,
electronic codes,
electronic ciphering methods.
This is different.
It's an ancient device.
Modern code-breaking methods
won't unravel it.
-Where are we headed?
-I need to ask some advice.
What? Sorry?
You heard me perfectly.
I'm not saying it again.
-You need advice?
-On painting. Yes, I need
to talk to an expert.
(SIREN WAILS)
RAZ:
Part of my new exhibition.
-Interesting.
-I call it...
Urban Bloodlust Frenzy.
(CHUCKLES)
Catchy.
I've got two minutes before
a Community Support Officer
comes around that corner.
Can we do this while
I'm working?
SHERLOCK:
Know the author?
I recognise the paint.
RAZ: It's like Michigan
hardcore propellant.
I'd say zinc.
And what about the symbols?
Do you recognise them?
I'm not even sure
it's a proper language.
Two men have
been murdered, Raz.
Deciphering this
is the key to finding out
who killed them.
And this is all
you've got to go on?
-It's hardly much now, is it?
-Are you going
to help us or not?
I'll ask around.
Somebody must know something
about it.
Oi!
(METALLIC CLATTERING)
What the hell do you think
you're doing?
This gallery is
a listed public building.
No, no. Wait, wait.
It's not me who painted that.
I was just holding this for...
Bit of an enthusiast, are we?
(INDISTINCT TALKING
OVER POLICE RADIO)
She was right in the middle
of an important piece
of restoration.
Why would she suddenly resign?
Family problems.
She said so in her letter.
But she doesn't have a family.
She came to this country
on her own.
-Andy!
-Look, those teapots,
those ceramics.
They've become her obsession.
She's been working
on restoring them for weeks.
I can't believe that she would
just abandon them.
Perhaps she was getting
a bit of unwanted attention?
(DOOR CLOSES)
You've been a while.
Yeah, well,
you know how it is.
Custody sergeants don't really
like to be hurried, do they?
Just formalities.
Fingerprints, charge sheet,
and I've got to be
in magistrates' court
on Tuesday.
What?
Me, Sherlock!
In court, on Tuesday!
They're giving me an ASBO!
Good, fine.
You wanna tell your little pal
he's welcome
to go and own up anytime.
This symbol,
I still can't place it.
No, I need you to go
to the police station
ask about the journalist,
his personal effects
would've been impounded.
Get hold of his diary
or something that will
tell us his movements.
Go and see Van Coon's PA.
If you retrace their steps,
somewhere they'll coincide.
Scotland Yard.
Flew back from Dalian Friday.
Looks like he had back-to-back
meetings with the sales team.
-Can you print me up a copy?
-Sure.
What about the day he died?
Can you tell me where he was?
AMANDA:
Sorry, I've got a gap.
I have all his receipts.
-Your friend...
-Listen, whatever you say,
I'm behind you 100%.
He's an arrogant sod.
Well, that was mild.
People say a lot worse
than that.
This is what you wanted,
isn't it?
The journalist's diary?
What kind of a boss
was he, Amanda?
Appreciative?
Um, no.
That's not a word I'd use.
The only things
Eddie appreciated
had a big price tag.
Like that hand cream.
He bought that for you,
didn't he?
Look at this one.
Got a taxi from home
on the day he died, 18.50.
That would get him
to the office.
Not rush hour. Check the time.
Mid-morning. Eighteen
would get him as far as...
The West End.
I remember him saying.
Underground,
printed at one in Piccadilly.
So he got a Tube back
to the office.
Why would
he get a taxi into town
and then the Tube back?
Because he was delivering
something heavy.
You wouldn't lug a package
up the escalator.
-Delivering?
-To somewhere near
Piccadilly Station.
Dropped the package,
delivered it, and then...
Stopped on his way.
He got peckish.
So you bought your lunch
from here
en route to the station,
but where were you
headed from?
Where did the taxi drop you?
(GRUNTS) Right.
Eddie Van Coon
brought a package here
the day he died.
Whatever was hidden inside
that case...
I've managed to
piece together a picture
using scraps of information.
Credit card bills, receipts.
He flew back from China,
then he came here.
-Sherlock.
-Somewhere in this street,
somewhere near.
-I don't know where, but...
-That shop, over there.
How could you tell?
Lukis' diary. He was here too.
He wrote down the address.
Oh.
-(DOOR OPENING)
-(BELL RINGING)
WATSON: Hello.
You want lucky cat?
WATSON:
No, thanks, no.
10! 10!
Ooh!
I think your wife,
she will like.
Um, thank you.
Sherlock.
The label there.
-(SOFTLY) Yes, I see it.
-It's exactly the same
as the cipher.
(WATSON CLEARS THROAT)
It's an ancient number system,
Hangzhou.
These days
only street traders use it.
Those were numbers written
on the wall at the bank
and at the library.
Numbers written in
an ancient Chinese dialect.
WATSON: It's a 15.
What we thought
was the artist's tag,
it's a number 15.
And the blindfold,
the horizontal line.
That was a number as well.
-The Chinese number one, John.
-We found it.
WATSON: Two men,
travel back from China,
both head straight for
the Lucky Cat emporium.
What did they see?
It's not what they saw.
It's what they both
brought back
in those suitcases.
And you don't mean duty free.
Thank you.
Think about
what Sebastian told us.
About Van Coon,
about how he stayed afloat
in the market.
-Lost five million.
-Made it back in a week.
That's how he made
such easy money.
He was a smuggler. Mmm.
I reckon he would have
been perfect.
Businessman,
making frequent trips to Asia.
Lukis was the same,
a journalist
writing about China.
Both of them
smuggled stuff about.
The Lucky Cat
was their drop-off.
But why did they die?
It doesn't make sense,
if the both turn up at
the shop and deliver the goods
why would
someone threaten them
and kill them
after the event,
after they'd finished the job?
What if one of them
was light-fingered?
-How do you mean?
-Stole something.
Something from the hoard.
And the killer doesn't know
which of them took it
so he threatens them both.
Right.
Remind me.
When was the last time
that it rained?
It's been here since Monday.
(DOORBELL RINGS)
SHERLOCK:
No one's been in that flat
for at least three days.
WATSON:
Could have gone on holiday.
Do you leave your windows open
when you go on holiday?
(HINGES SQUEAKING)
Sherlock!
-(GROANS)
-(WATER DRIPS)
Someone else has been here.
Somebody else broke into
the flat and knocked over
the vase, just like I did.
-(SNIFFS)
-(DOORBELL RINGS)
WATSON: Do you think maybe
you could let me in this time?
Can you not
keep doing this, please?
(SNIFFS)
(CLOSES FRIDGE DOOR)
I'm not the first!
What?
Somebody's been in here
before me!
WATSON:
What are you saying?
Size eight feet.
Small, but
athletic.
I'm wasting my breath.
(DOORBELL RINGS)
Small, strong hands.
Our acrobat.
Why didn't he close the window
when he left...
Oh, stupid, stupid!
Obvious.
He's still here.
(CHOKING)
Any time you want
to include me...
John...
John!
"Oh, I'm Sherlock Holmes
and I always work alone
"because no-one else
can compete
with my massive intellect!"
(GASPING)
(DOORBELL RINGS)
(COUGHING)
(GROANING)
(EXHALING FRUSTRATINGLY)
The milk's gone off
and the washing
started to smell.
(COARSELY)
Somebody left here in a hurry
three days ago.
Somebody?
(GASPING) Soo Lin Yao.
We have to find her.
How, exactly?
(COARSELY)
We could start with this.
You've gone all croaky.
Are you getting a cold?
(COUGHS) I'm fine.
When was the last time
that you saw her?
ANDY: Three days ago.
Umm, here at the museum.
This morning they told me
she'd resigned.
Just like that.
Left her work unfinished.
What was the last thing
that she did
on her final afternoon?
She does this demonstration
for the tourists,
a tea ceremony.
So she would have packed
up her things
and just put them in here.
-We have to get
to Soo Lin Yao.
-If she's still alive.
Sherlock!
WATSON:
Oh, look who it is.
Found something you'll like.
Tuesday morning,
all you've got to do
is turn up and say
the bag was yours.
Forget about your court date.
GIRL: Dude, that was rad!
You want to hide a tree,
then a forest
is the best place to do it,
wouldn't you say?
People would just walk
straight past, not knowing,
unable to decipher
the message.
There. I spotted it earlier.
They've been here.
And that's the exact
same paint?
RAZ: Yeah.
SHERLOCK:
John, if we're going to
decipher this code,
we're gonna need
to look for more evidence.
(SIRENS WAILING)
(DISTANT TRAIN PASSING)
Answer your phone.
I've been calling you.
(PANTING) I found it.
WATSON:
It's been painted over.
I don't understand.
It was here.
Ten minutes ago. I saw it.
A whole load of graffiti.
Somebody doesn't
want me to see it.
-Sherlock, what are you...
-Ssh! John, concentrate.
I need you to concentrate.
Close your eyes.
What? Why? Why?
What are you doing?
I need you to maximise
your visual memory.
-Try to picture what you saw.
Can you picture it?
-Yeah.
-Can you remember it?
-Yes, definitely.
-Can you remember the pattern?
-Yes.
-How much can you remember it?
-Look, don't worry.
Because the average
human memory on visual matters
is only 62% accurate.
-Yeah, well, don't worry,
I remember all of it.
-Really?
Yeah. Well, at least I would,
if I could get to my pockets.
I took a photograph.
(MOBILE BEEPS)
(TRAIN RUMBLES PAST)
Always in pairs, John, look.
Mmm?
Numbers.
Come with partners.
God, I need to sleep.
-Why did he paint it
so near the tracks?
-No idea.
Thousands of people
pass by there every day.
Just 20 minutes.
Of course.
Of course,
he wants information.
He's trying to communicate
with his people
in the underworld.
Whatever was stolen
he wants it back.
It's somewhere here,
in a code.
We can't crack this
without Soo Lin Yao.
Oh, good.
Two men who travelled back
from China were murdered.
And their killer
left them messages
in Hangzhou numerals.
Soo Lin Yao is in danger.
That cipher,
it was just the same pattern
as the others.
He means to kill her as well.
Look, I've tried everywhere,
friends, colleagues.
I don't know where she's gone.
I mean, she could be
a thousand miles away.
-What are you looking at?
-Tell me more
about those teapots.
The pots were her obsession.
They need urgent work.
If they dry out,
then the clay
can start to crumble.
Apparently, you have to just
keep making tea in them.
Yesterday, only one
of those pots were shining.
Now, there are two.
-Fancy a biscuit with that?
-(GASPS)
Centuries old.
Don't want to break that.
Hello.
You saw the cipher.
Then you know
he is coming for me.
You've been clever
to avoid him so far.
I had to finish.
To finish this work.
It's only a matter of time.
I know he will find me.
Who is he?
Have you met him before?
When I was a girl,
we met in China.
I recognised his...
-signature.
-SHERLOCK: The cipher?
Only he would do this.
Zhi Zhu.
-Zhi Zhu?
-The spider.
SOO LIN:
You know this mark?
-Yes. It's the mark of a Tong.
-Hmm?
Ancient crime syndicate,
based in China.
Every foot soldier
bears the mark.
Everyone who hauls for them.
Hauls?
You... You mean
you were a smuggler?
I was 15.
My parents were dead.
I had no livelihood.
No way of surviving,
day-to-day,
except to work
for the bosses.
Who are they?
They are called
the Black Lotus.
By the time I was 16,
I was taking
thousands of pounds
worth of drugs
across the border
into Hong Kong.
I managed to leave
that life behind me.
I came to England.
They gave me a job, here.
Everything was good.
New life.
And he came looking for you.
Yes.
I hoped, after five years
maybe they would have
forgotten me.
But they never really
let you leave.
A small community like ours,
they are never
very far away.
He came to my flat.
He asked me to help him
to track down
something that was stolen.
And you've no idea
what it was?
I refused to help.
So, you knew him well
when you were
living back in China?
Oh, yes.
He's my brother.
Two orphans.
We had no choice.
We could work
for the Black Lotus
or starve on the streets
like beggars.
My brother has become
their puppet.
In the power of the one
they call Shan.
The Black Lotus general.
I turned my brother away.
He said I had betrayed him.
Next day, I came to work
and the cipher was waiting.
SHERLOCK:
Can you decipher these?
-These are numbers.
-Yes, I know.
Here, the line across
the man's eyes, it's the
Chinese number one.
And this one is 15.
But what's the code?
All the smugglers know it.
It's based upon a book...
(DOOR THUDS)
He's here.
Zhi Zhu
has found me.
WATSON: No, no, Sherlock.
Sherlock, wait!
Come here. Get in. Get in!
(GUNSHOT)
-(GUNSHOT)
-(GROANS)
I have to go and help him.
Bolt the door after me.
(DOOR OPENING)
(GUNSHOTS)
(SHELLS CLINKING)
-Careful!
-(GUNSHOT)
Some of those skulls
are over 200,000 years old,
have a bit of respect!
Thank you.
(WHISPERS INDISTINCTLY)
(SHUDDERING)
(SPEAKING CANTONESE)
(GUNSHOT)
Oh, my God.
(GROANS SOFTLY)
How many murders
is it going to take
before you start believing
that this maniac's out there?
(MUTTERS)
A young girl
was gunned down tonight.
That's three victims
in three days.
You're supposed
to be finding him.
Brian Lukis and Eddie Van Coon
were working for a gang
of international smugglers.
A gang called the Black Lotus
operating here in London
right under your nose.
Can you prove that?
-What are you thinking?
Pork or pasta?
-Oh, it's you.
I suppose it's never going
to trouble Egon Ronay, is it?
I'd stick with the pasta.
Don't want to be doing
roast pork, not if
you're slicing up cadavers.
What are you having?
I don't eat when I'm working.
Digesting slows me down.
So you're working
here tonight?
-Need to examine some bodies.
-Some?
Eddie Van Coon
and Brian Lukis.
They're on my list.
Could you wheel them out again
for me?
Well...their paperwork's
already gone through.
-You changed your hair.
-What?
The style.
It's usually parted
in the middle.
-Yes, well...
-It's good. It...
Suits you better this way.
We're just interested
in the feet.
-The feet?
-Yes.
Do you mind
if we have a look at them?
Now, Van Coon.
Oh!
So...
So either these two men
just happened to visit the
same Chinese tattoo parlour
or I'm telling the truth.
What do you want?
I want every book
from Lukis' apartment
and Van Coon's.
Their books?
Not just
a criminal organisation.
It's a cult.
Her brother was corrupted
by one of its leaders.
Soo Lin said the name.
Yes, "Shan."
General Shan.
We're still no closer
to finding him.
Wrong! We've got almost
all we need to know.
She gave us most of
the missing pieces.
Why did he need to visit
his sister? Why did
he need her expertise?
-She worked at the museum.
-Exactly.
An expert in antiquities.
Mmm. Of course, I see.
Valuable antiquities, John.
Ancient Chinese relics
purchased on the black market.
China's home to
a thousand treasures hidden
after Mao's revolution.
The Black Lotus
is selling them.
-Check for the dates...
-Here, John.
Arrived from China
four days ago.
Anonymous.
The vendor
doesn't give his name.
Two undiscovered treasures
from the East.
One in Lukis' suitcase
and one in Van Coon's.
SHERLOCK:
"Antiquities
"sold at auction."
Look, here's another one.
Arrived from China
a month ago,
Chinese ceramic statue
sold, 400,000.
Look, a month before that,
Chinese painting,
half a million.
All of them
from an anonymous source.
They're stealing them
back in China
and one by one
they're feeding them
into Britain.
Ah!
WATSON:
Well, every single auction
coincides with Lukis
or Van Coon
travelling to China.
So, what if
one of them got greedy
when they were in China?
What if one of them
stole something?
That's why Zhi Zhu's come.
-(KNOCK AT DOOR)
-(MRS HUDSON HOOTS)
Sorry, are we collecting
for charity, Sherlock?
-What?
-A young man's outside
with crates of books.
(OFFICERS GRUNTING)
So the numbers are references.
To books.
To specific pages
and specific words
on those pages.
Right. So...
15 and 1, that means?
Turn to page 15
and it's the first word
you read.
-Okay, so what's the message?
-Depends on the book.
That's the cunning
of the book code.
It has to be one
that they both own.
Okay, fine.
Well, this shouldn't take
too long, should it?
We found these
at the museum.
Is this your writing?
Er, we hoped Soo Lin
could decipher it for us.
Tough.
Anything else I can do?
To assist you, I mean.
Some silence right now
would be marvelous.
"Cigarette."
Uh...
"Imagine."
(CLOCK TICKS)
(ALARM BEEPS)
Oh.
(SIGHING)
(CHURCH BELLS TOLLING)
I'm sorry to keep you waiting,
but we haven't got anything
now until next Thursday.
WOMAN 1: This is taking ages.
RECEPTIONIST: Ah, sorry.
WOMAN 2: What's the point
of taking appointment if they
can't even speak to me?
Um, what's going on?
That new doctor you hired,
he hasn't buzzed
the intercom for ages.
-Let me go and have a word.
-Yeah.
-Excuse me.
-Sorry.
-(KNOCKS AT DOOR)
-John?
John?
(SNORING SOFTLY)
Looks like I'm done.
I thought I had
some more to see.
-Oh, I did one or two
of yours.
-One or two?
Well, maybe five or six.
I'm sorry,
that's not very professional.
No. No, not really.
I had...a bit of a late one.
Oh, right.
Anyway, see you.
So...what were you doing
to keep you up so late?
I was attending
a sort of book event.
Oh. Oh, she likes books,
does she, your girlfriend?
No, it wasn't a date.
-Good. I mean, I'm...
-And I don't have one tonight.
A book that everybody
would own.
Fifteen, entry one.
I need to get some air.
We're going out tonight.
-Actually, I've got a date.
-What?
Where two people
who like each other
go out and have fun?
-That's what I was suggesting.
-No, it wasn't.
At least, I hope not.
-Where are you taking her?
-Er, cinema.
Er, dull, boring,
predictable.
Why don't you try this?
In London for one night only.
(LAUGHS NERVOUSLY)
Thanks, but I don't
come to you for dating advice.
SARAH: It's years
since anyone
took me to the circus.
WATSON:
(CHUCKLING AWKWARDLY)
Right, yes.
Well, a friend
recommended it to me
I phoned up.
Oh! What are they,
a touring company
or something?
I don't know much about it.
SARAH:
I think they're probably
from China.
I think so, yes.
There's a coincidence!
That's wonderful,
thank you very much.
Hi, I have two tickets
reserved for tonight.
-And what's the name?
-Holmes.
(WATSON CLEARING THROAT)
Actually,
I have three in that name.
No, I don't think so,
we only booked two.
Then I phoned back
and got one
for myself as well.
I'm Sherlock.
(SARAH LAUGHS AWKWARDLY)
-Hi.
-Hello.
You couldn't let me have
just one night off.
Yellow Dragon Circus,
in London for one day.
It fits.
The Tong sent an assassin
to England...
Dressed as a tightrope walker?
Come on, Sherlock, behave!
We're looking for a killer
who can climb,
who can shin up a rope.
Where else would you find
that level of dexterity?
Exit visas
are scarce in China.
They need a pretty good reason
to get out of that country.
Now, all I need to do
is have a quick look
around the place.
Fine. You do that.
I'm gonna take Sarah
for a pint.
I need your help.
I do have
a couple of other things
on my mind this evening.
Like what?
You are kidding?
-What's so important?
-Sherlock, I'm right
in the middle of a date.
You're going to
chase some killer
while I'm trying to...
What?
(ALOUD) While I'm trying
to get off with Sarah.
Hey... Ready?
Yeah.
(SOFTLY) You said circus.
This is not a circus.
Look at the size
of this crowd.
Sherlock, this is...art.
-This is not their day job.
-No, I'm sorry, I forgot.
They're not a circus,
they're a gang of
international smugglers.
(SOFT PERCUSSIVE BEAT)
(DRUMS BEAT)
(DRAMATIC
ORIENTAL MUSIC PLAYING)
-(WHOOSHES)
-(AUDIENCE GASPS)
(APPLAUSE)
(CHAINS CLINKING)
Classic Chinese
escapology act.
-Hmm?
-The crossbow's
on a delicate string.
The warrior has to escape
his bonds before it fires.
(SHOUTS)
(DRUM BEAT QUICKENS)
-(CYMBAL CRASHES)
-Oh!
Oh.
(BOTH CHUCKLING)
She splits the sandbag,
the sand pours out.
Gradually, the weight lowers
into the bowl.
(ESCAPOLOGIST SHOUTS)
(GRUNTING AGGRESSIVELY)
(CONTINUES GRUNTING)
-(SHOUTS)
-(APPLAUSE)
-Thank God.
-My God!
(ALL APPLAUDING)
(APPLAUSE CONTINUES)
(APPLAUSE STOPS)
Ladies and gentlemen,
from the distant
moonlit shores
of the Yangtze River,
we present, for your pleasure,
the deadly
Chinese bird spider.
(DRUM BEATING)
(APPLAUSE)
(MUSIC PLAYING)
Did you see that?
Well, well.
(DOOR OPENS)
-(DOOR CLOSES)
-(COAT HANGERS RATTLE)
(COAT HANGERS RATTLING)
(DOOR OPENS)
(DOOR CLOSES)
Found you.
(SOFT RUSTLE)
(GRUNTING)
(GROANING)
-Come on.
-SHERLOCK: Come on. Let's go!
I sent a couple of cars.
The old hall
is totally deserted.
Look, I saw the mark
at the circus.
The tattoo that we saw
on the two bodies,
the mark of the Tong.
Lukis and Van Coon
were part of
a smuggling operation.
Now, one of them
stole something
when they were in China.
Something valuable.
These circus performers
were gang members
sent here to get it back.
Get what back?
We don't know.
You don't know?
Mr Holmes, I've done
everything you asked.
Lestrade, he seems to think
your advice
is worth something.
I gave the order for a raid.
Please tell me
I'll have something
to show for it.
Other than
a massive bill
for overtime.
They'll be back
in China by tomorrow.
No, they won't leave
without what they came for.
We need to find a hideout.
A rendezvous.
Somewhere in this message
it must tell us.
Well, I think perhaps
I should leave you to it.
No, you don't have to go.
-Yes, it'd be better
if you left now.
-You can stay.
He's kidding.
Please stay if you'd like.
-Is it just me or
is anyone else starving?
-Oh, God.
So this is what you do.
You and John,
you solve puzzles
for a living.
Consulting detective.
Oh.
Oh!
What are these squiggles?
They're numbers.
An ancient Chinese dialect.
Oh, right. Well, of course
I should have known that.
(MRS HUDSON HOOTS SOFTLY)
(WHISPERING) I've done punch
and a bowl of nibbles.
Mrs Hudson, you are a saint.
If it was Monday,
I'd have been
to the supermarket.
Thank you. Thank you.
(SIRENS WAILING PAST)
-So these numbers,
it's a cipher?
-Exactly.
And each pair of numbers
is a word?
How did you know that?
Well, two words have already
been translated, here.
-John.
-Mmm?
John, look at this.
Soo Lin at the museum,
she started to translate
the code for us.
We didn't see it.
"Nine," "mill."
Does that mean millions?
Nine million quid. For what?
We need to know
the end of this sentence.
-Where are you going?
-To the museum,
to the restoration room.
-We must have been
staring right at it.
-At what?
The book, John. The book.
The key to
cracking the cipher.
Soo Lin used it to do this.
Whilst we were
running around the gallery,
she started to
translate the code.
It must be on her desk.
Taxi!
(MAN SHOUTING)
Entschuldigen Sie, bitte,
(AGGRESSIVELY) Ja, danke.
(MAN MURMURING)
(GRUNTS IN FRUSTRATION)
A book that everybody
would own.
Please, wait! Bitte!
Was wollt er?
-Hey, du, was machst du?
-Minute!
Gib mir doch
mein Buch zuruck!
Yeah. No, absolutely.
I mean, well, quiet night in
is just what
the doctor ordered.
Ha, ha, ha.
I mean I 'd love to
go out of an evening
and wrestle
a few Chinese gangsters,
you know, generally,
-but a girl can get too much.
-Okay.
Er, shall we get a takeaway?
Yeah.
Page 15, entry one.
"Deadman."
You were threatening
to kill them.
That's the first cipher.
9, 0, 15.
Er, 15 and 36.
(MUTTERING) 36, 39, 39.
39.
"Nine", "mill", "for..."
(KNOCK AT DOOR)
Blimey, that was quick.
I'll just pop down.
Do you want me to
lay the table?
-Um...eat off trays?
-Yeah.
70, 35.
Jade.
Sorry to keep you.
How much do you want?
-Do you have it?
-What?
-Do you have the treasure?
-I don't understand.
(MUTTERS)
"Nine mill for...Jade pin.
"Dragon den, black...
"tramway."
(DOOR OPENS)
(DOOR CLOSES)
SHERLOCK: John! John,
I've got it.
The cipher, the book.
It's the London A-Z
that they're use...
WOMAN: A book
is like a magic garden,
carried in your pocket.
Chinese proverb, Mr Holmes.
I'm...
I'm not Sherlock Holmes.
Forgive me if I do not
take your word for it.
Ow!
Debit card,
name of S Holmes.
Take my card.
Yes, that's not actually mine.
He lent that to me.
And a cheque for 5,000
made out in the name of
Mr Sherlock Holmes.
Yeah, he gave me that
to look after.
Tickets from the theatre
collected by you,
name of Holmes.
-Yes, okay.
-What's the name?
-Er, Holmes.
-I realise
what this looks like.
But I'm not him.
-We heard it
from your own mouth.
-What?
"I am Sherlock Holmes
and I always work alone."
"Because no one else
can compete
with my massive intellect."
Did I really say that?
I suppose there's no use me
trying to persuade you
I was doing an impression.
(EXHALING)
I am Shan.
You're... You're Shan?
Three times we tried to
kill you and your companion,
Mr Holmes.
What does it tell you
when an assassin
cannot shoot straight?
-(GUN COCKS)
-(STUTTERING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(GUN CLICKS)
It tells you
that they're not
really trying.
(SIGHING)
Tramway.
There.
Not blank bullets now.
(EXHALES) Okay.
If we wanted to kill you,
Mr Holmes,
we would have done it by now.
We just wanted to
make you inquisitive.
-Do you have it?
-Do I have what?
-The treasure.
-I don't know
what you're talking about.
I would prefer
to make certain.
Everything in the West
has its price.
And the price for her life,
information.
(SARAH GROANS)
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
-Where's the hairpin?
-What?
The Empress pin valued
at nine million sterling?
We already had
a buyer in the West
and then one of our people
was greedy, he took it,
brought it back to London,
and you, Mr Holmes,
have been searching.
Please, please. Listen to me.
I'm not...
I'm not Sherlock Holmes.
You have to believe me.
I haven't found whatever it is
you're looking for.
-I need a volunteer
from the audience.
-No, please, please!
Ah, thank you, lady.
Yes, you'll do very nicely.
(MUFFLED GROANS)
(SIGHING)
Ladies and gentlemen,
from the distant,
moonlit shores of NW1,
we present for your pleasure,
Sherlock Holmes'
pretty companion
in a death-defying act.
Please!
You've seen the act before.
How dull for you.
You know how it ends.
-I'm not Sherlock Holmes!
-I don't believe you.
You should, you know.
Sherlock Holmes
is nothing at all like him.
How would you
describe me, John?
Resourceful? Dynamic?
Enigmatic?
Late?
SHERLOCK:
That's a semi-automatic.
If you fire it,
the bullet will travel at over
1,000 metres per second.
-Well?
-Well...
...the radius curvature
of these walls
is nearly four metres.
If you miss,
the bullet will ricochet.
Could hit anyone.
Might even
bounce off the tunnel
and hit you.
(LOUD CLANG)
(GROANS)
(GRUNTING)
(GROANING)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(FOOTSTEPS RECEDING QUICKLY)
It's all right.
(GRUNTS)
You're going to be all right.
It's over now.
Don't worry.
Next date won't be like this.
We'll just slip off.
No need to mention us
in your report.
-Mr Holmes...
-I have high hopes
for you, Inspector.
A glittering career.
I go where you point me.
Exactly.
(POURING LIQUID)
WATSON: Ta.
-So, nine million.
Yes. Nine million.
-Million.
For Jade pin dragon den
black tramway.
-An instruction to all
their London operatives.
-Mmm.
A message.
What they were
trying to reclaim.
-What, a jade pin?
-Worth nine million pounds.
-Bring it to the Tramway,
their London hideout.
-Hang on.
A hairpin
worth nine million pounds?
-Apparently.
-Why so much?
Depends who owned it.
SHERLOCK: Two operatives
based in London.
They travel over to Dalian
to smuggle those vases.
One of them
helps himself to something,
a little hairpin.
WATSON:
Worth nine million pounds.
Eddie Van Coon was the thief,
he stole the treasure
when he was in China.
How do you know
it was Van Coon,
not Lukis?
-Even the killer
didn't know that.
-Because of the soap.
(PHONE RINGS)
-Amanda?
-SHERLOCK: He brought you
a present.
Oh, hello.
A little gift
when he came back from China.
-How do you know that?
-You weren't just his PA,
were you?
-Someone's been gossiping.
-No.
Then I don't
understand why...
Scented hand soap
in his apartment,
300 millilitres of it.
Bottle almost finished.
Sorry?
I don't think Eddie Van Coon
was the type of chap
to buy himself hand soap,
not unless
he had a lady coming over.
And it's the same brand
as that hand cream
there on your desk.
Look, it wasn't serious
between us.
It was over in a flash,
it couldn't last.
-He was my boss.
-What happened?
Why did you end it?
I thought
he didn't appreciate me.
Took me for granted.
Stood me up once too often.
We'd plan to go away
for the weekend,
and then he'd just leave.
Fly off to China
at a moment's notice.
And he brought you a present
from abroad to say sorry.
Can I just have a look at it?
He really climbed up
onto the balcony?
Nail a plank across the window
and all your
problems are over.
Thanks.
He said he bought it
in a street market.
Oh, I don't think that's true.
I think he pinched it.
(CHUCKLING)
Yeah, that's Eddie.
Didn't know its value,
just thought
it would suit you.
Oh?
What's it worth?
Nine million pounds.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
-Oh, my God.
Oh, my God!
-(CLATTERING)
(PHONE RINGING)
(SHOUTING) Nine million?
WATSON:
Over a thousand years old,
and it's sitting
on her bedside table
every night.
He didn't know its value.
Didn't know why
they were chasing him.
Should've just got her
a lucky cat.
Mmm.
-You mind, don't you?
-What?
That she escaped.
General Shan.
It's not enough
that we got her two henchmen.
Must be a vast network, John.
Thousands of operatives.
You and I, we barely
scratched the surface.
You cracked the code though,
Sherlock.
And maybe Dimmock
can track down all of them
now that he knows it.
No.
No. I crack this code,
all the smugglers have to do
is pick up another book.
(SIREN BLARING PAST)
Without you,
without your assistance,
we would not have found
passage into London.
You have my thanks.
(BEEPS)
We did not anticipate.
We did not know
this man would come.
This Sherlock Holmes.
And now your safety
is compromised.
(BEEPS)
I will not reveal
your identity.
(BEEPS)
(GUNSHOT)